Phase 0: Environment Setup 
Before touching any product code, get all your tooling installed and verified.
Mantle Testnet Wallet
Add Mantle Sepolia Testnet to MetaMask (Chain ID: 5003, RPC: https://rpc.sepolia.mantle.xyz). Get testnet MNT from the Mantle faucet. Confirm you can view transactions on the Mantle Sepolia Explorer. This is non-negotiable — the submission requires a live Mantle contract address.
OpenClaw (RealClaw Base)
OpenClaw is the agent framework you'll extend. Run openclaw onboard in your terminal — it guides you through setting up the gateway, workspace, channels, and skills. It works on macOS, Linux, and Windows. This becomes your "CFO logic layer" backbone. GitHub
Byreal Agent Skills CLI
Install the byreal-cli, run byreal-cli setup to configure your wallet, and verify you can run commands like byreal-cli pools list --sort-field apr24h and byreal-cli swap execute ... --dry-run before writing any agent logic. The dry-run flag is your safety net during development. GitHub
Frontend Scaffold
Spin up a Next.js project with Tailwind. Install Wagmi + RainbowKit for wallet connection. Install the Vercel AI SDK for the chat interface. Don't style anything yet — functionality first.

Phase 1: The Agent Brain 
This is the most critical piece. You're building the "intent parsing → decision → action" pipeline.
Step 1 — Intent Parser
When a user types "Keep my savings beating inflation but rotate 40% into ETH yield if markets look bullish," that plain text needs to become a structured object your agent can act on. Set up a backend API route (Next.js API or a lightweight Python FastAPI service) that takes the user's text and calls an LLM (GPT-4o-mini is fastest and cheapest) with a strict system prompt. The output should be a JSON schema like:
{
  risk_tolerance: "medium",
  max_crypto_allocation: 40,
  default_instrument: "USDY",
  trigger: { condition: "bullish_market", rotate_to: "mETH", pct: 40 },
  hedge_trigger: { condition: "high_volatility", rebalance_to: "USDY" }
}
Store this "Wealth Rules" object in your database (a simple Postgres or even a JSON file works for hackathon scope) tied to the user's wallet address.
Step 2 — Market Monitor
Build a background polling loop (a simple cron job or a Node.js setInterval) that runs every few minutes and checks:

mETH price volatility (fetch from a public price API like CoinGecko or the Mantle DEX pool directly)
USDY yield rate (from Ondo's on-chain contract or their public API)
A simple "bullish/bearish" signal — you can mock this with ETH 24h price change % for the hackathon

Step 3 — Risk Evaluator
This is the agent's reasoning step. Feed the current market snapshot + the user's stored Wealth Rules JSON into your LLM. Ask it to return a decision object:
{
  action: "rebalance",
  from: "mETH",
  to: "USDY",
  percentage: 20,
  reason: "Volatility index exceeded threshold"
}
Keep this prompt tightly constrained so the LLM only outputs valid JSON — no prose.

Phase 2: On-Chain Execution 
This is where the Byreal Skills CLI does the heavy lifting.
Connecting Agent Decisions to Byreal
When the Risk Evaluator returns a rebalance action, your backend needs to call the Byreal CLI programmatically. You can do this via Node.js child_process.exec() or Python subprocess, wrapping the CLI commands in your server logic.
The flow is: Decision JSON → build the byreal-cli swap execute command with the right input/output mints and amount → execute on Mantle Testnet.
USDY and mETH Contract Interactions
Both USDY (Ondo's tokenized US Treasuries) and mETH (Mantle Staked ETH) are standard ERC-20 tokens on Mantle. You'll interact with them using ethers.js or viem on the frontend for balance reads, and via the Byreal CLI for swaps. Find their official contract addresses in Mantle's documentation or the Mantle block explorer.
Transaction Logging
Every swap the agent executes must be logged — this is both a hackathon requirement (on-chain proof of deployment) and a core product feature. Save the transaction hash + a human-readable reason ("De-risked 20% to USDY due to volatility") to your database. This feeds the frontend narrative feed.

Phase 3: The Frontend Dashboard 
With the agent working, build the UI around it. You need three screens:
Screen 1 — Onboarding / Intent Setup
A clean chat interface where the user types their financial mandate in plain English. Show a confirmation card when the Wealth Rules are parsed and saved ("Your CFO is configured: Medium risk, max 40% in ETH yield").
Screen 2 — Portfolio Dashboard
Show current allocation split (% USDY vs % mETH), current portfolio value, yield being earned, and a simple allocation chart (Recharts or Chart.js works fine). Pull this data by reading the user's token balances from the Mantle chain.
Screen 3 — Agent Activity Feed
A chronological log of every decision the agent made with its reasoning. Each entry should show: timestamp, action taken, assets moved, tx hash (linked to Mantle explorer), and the plain-English reason. This is your most compelling demo moment — it shows the AI actually working.



User journey - 
Step 1 — User onboarding
Connect wallet + set wealth rules
User types: "Keep savings above inflation. Rotate 40% into mETH if market looks bullish."
Tools: RainbowKit / Wagmi (wallet) · Vercel AI SDK (chat UI) · Next.js frontend
Step 2 — Intent parsing (AI)
LLM converts plain English → structured rules
Output: { risk: "medium", max_crypto: 40%, trigger: "bullish → rotate to mETH" }
Tool: GPT-4o-mini 
Step 3 — Market monitoring (background loop)
Agent continuously watches live data
Watches: mETH price volatility · USDY yield rate · ETH 24h % change
Tools: OpenClaw agent loop · CoinGecko / Mantle RPC calls
Runs every few minutes as a background cron job
Step 4 — Risk evaluation (AI decision)
OpenClaw agent checks: are user rules being broken?
Feeds: current market snapshot + stored wealth rules → LLM
Output: { action: "rebalance", from: "mETH", to: "USDY", amount: 20%, reason: "high volatility" }
Tools: OpenClaw (RealClaw) agent framework · GPT-4o-mini
Step 5 — On-chain execution (the key moment)
Byreal CLI executes the swap on Mantle
Agent calls: byreal-cli swap execute (mETH → USDY) on Mantle Testnet
Tools: Byreal Agent Skills CLI · Mantle Testnet RPC · ERC-20 contracts
Result: real transaction hash logged on Mantle block explorer
Step 6 — User sees the result
Dashboard updates with narrative + portfolio change
"De-risked 20% into treasury bonds due to high volatility" · tx hash shown
Tools: Next.js dashboard · Recharts (charts) · Mantle RPC (live balances)

testings of this project - Smart contract interactions verified on Mantle Sepolia Explorer (this qualifies you for the 20-project deployment side award worth $1K)
At least one real end-to-end swap executed on testnet with a visible tx hash


Layer 1: Frontend
Next.js + Tailwind
RainbowKit / Wagmi
Vercel AI SDK
Recharts
What it does
Shows portfolio + chat UI
Connects user wallet
Streams AI responses
Layer 2: Agent brain
OpenClaw (RealClaw)
GPT-4o-mini LLM
Byreal Skills CLI
Node.js / Python backend
What it does
Parses user intent
Monitors market data
Makes rebalance decisions
Layer 3: Blockchain
Mantle Testnet
USDY contract (Ondo)
mETH contract (Mantle)
Mantle block explorer
What it does
Settles swaps on-chain
Holds real token balances
Proves every action publicly
User sees + interacts
AI thinks + decides
Blockchain acts + proves
The key insight
Most DeFi apps require users to manually decide when to rebalance.
Your project removes that burden entirely — the agent does it autonomously.